Document unsupported reason 'home_assistant_core_version' (#40914)
home-assistant/home-assistant.github.io: source/more-info/unsupported/home_assistant_core_version.markdown

---

> title: "Home Assistant Core version"

Reviewer: Home Assistant Core version is a very generic title. Can we add the symptom in the title? Or is there a reason to just mention that it's something about the Core version?

This page seems like a troubleshooter to me. 
We could use the Symptom, Description (or Cause), Resolution structure here.

Author: These more-info unsupported come all in the same format, e.g.

https://www.home-assistant.io/more-info/unsupported/network_manager
https://www.home-assistant.io/more-info/unsupported/os_version

In a way the breadcrums above say that its about unsupported, but maybe that is not really clear enough. I think if we want to change then we should all at once, e.g. prefix with `Unsupported: ...` Or `Unsupported - ...`

description: "More information on why Home Assistant Core version marks the installation as unsupported."
---

## The issue

Supervisor considers Home Assistant Core versions older than 24 months (approximately 24 releases) as unsupported.

> We strongly recommend keeping Home Assistant Core updated to the latest version, or

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is strongly recommend to keeping Home Assistant Core updated to the latest version.
```

> at minimum updating within 6 months (6 release cycles) to ensure you don't miss

Reviewer: ```suggestion
At a minimum, update within 6 months (6 release cycles) to ensure you don't miss
```

automatic YAML integration migrations. Migration code that converts YAML-based
integrations to modern UI-based configuration is only available for 6 months
after deprecation, which corresponds to 6 Home Assistant Core releases.

On installations using an unsupported Home Assistant Core release, the
Supervisor stops refreshing its update information. This means you will no
longer receive updates for any component, including Home Assistant Core or

> Add-on updates.

Reviewer 2: This is not entirely true - the update information is fetched on Supervisor restart because it's done before the unsupported issue is created.

Author: Uh, that is not intended to happen. For OS, we carefully made sure that the evaluation is done before fetching. I need to double check code then :cold_sweat:

Author: I continued the discussion on the still open PR at https://github.com/home-assistant/supervisor/pull/6148#issuecomment-3311827040.

## The solution

Since you've not updated your system in a while, we recommend to [create a backup](/common-tasks/general/#backups)
before updating your system. Make sure to download the backup or store it at

> a remote location.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Since you've not updated your system in a while, it is recommended to [create a backup](/common-tasks/general/#backups) before updating your system. 
    - Make sure to download the backup or store it in a remote location.
```

To resolve this issue, update your Home Assistant Core version. Go to
{% my updates title="**System** > **Updates**" %} to update Home Assistant Core.
If you don't see the update you may have skipped it in the past. To see
previously skipped updates, select the three dots {% icon "mdi:dots-vertical" %}

> and enable skipped updates.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Update your Home Assistant Core version. 
    - Go to {% my updates title="**System** > **Updates**" %} to update Home Assistant Core.
    - If you don't see the update, you may have skipped it in the past. To see
previously skipped updates, select the three dots {% icon "mdi:dots-vertical" %}
and enable skipped updates.
```
I would make this a step-by-step procedure by applying a numbered list.

If you're significantly behind and have YAML-based integrations that need
migration, update in increments of no more than 6 releases at a time
(e.g. from Home Assistant Core 2024.2 to 2024.8, then to 2025.2). This ensures
automatic migrations can run properly during each update. You can use the

> Home Assistant CLI to update to a [specific Home Assistant Core version](/common-tasks/os/#home-assistant-versions).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - If you're significantly behind and have YAML-based integrations that need
migration, update in increments of no more than 6 releases at a time
(for example, from Home Assistant Core 2024.2 to 2024.8, then to 2025.2). 
      - This ensures automatic migrations can run properly during each update. 
      - You can use the Home Assistant CLI to update to a [specific Home Assistant Core version](/common-tasks/os/#home-assistant-versions).
```
